Extensions content - Master PR (#2411)
timescale/docs: use-timescale/extensions/pgvector.md

---
title: pgvector PostgreSQL extension
excerpt: Use the pgvector extension with your Timescale service
products: [cloud]
keywords: [services, settings, extensions, pgvector]
tags: [extensions, pgvector]
---

# The `pgvector` extension

The `pgvector` PostgreSQL extension helps you to store and search over machine
learning-generated embeddings. It provides different capabilities that allows
you to identify both exact and approximate nearest neighbors. It is designed to
work seamlessly with other PostgreSQL features, including indexing and querying.

For more information about these functions and the options available, see the
[pgvector][pgvector-repo] repository.

## Use the `pgvector` extension to create a `chatbot`

The `pgvector` PostgreSQL extension allows you to create, store, and query
OpenAI [vector embeddings][vector-embeddings] in Timescale. Learn how to use

> [Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG)][rag-docs] to create a `chatbot` that combines
> your data with the power of ChatGPT using OpenAI and pgvector. RAG addresses the

Author: ```suggestion
[retrieval augmented generation (RAG)][rag-docs] to create a chatbot that combines
your data with ChatGPT using OpenAI and `pgvector`. RAG provides a solution to the
```

> problem that a foundational model such as GPT-3 or GPT-4 may be missing some

Author: ```suggestion
problem that a foundational model such as GPT-3 or GPT-4 could be missing some
```

> information needed to give a good answer because that information was not in the

Author: ```suggestion
information needed to give a good answer, because that information was not in the
```

> dataset used to train the model. For example, the information is stored in

Author: ```suggestion
dataset used to train the model. This can happen if the information is stored in
```

private documents or only became available recently.

### Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

*   Installed Python.
*   Created a [Timescale][cloud-login] service.
*   Downloaded the cheatsheet when you created the service. This sheet contains
    the connection details for the database you want to use as a vector database.
*   Signed up for an [OpenAI developer account][openai-signup].

> *   Created and API key and made a note of your OpenAI [API key][api-key].

Author: ```suggestion
*   Created an API key and made a note of your OpenAI [API key][api-key].
```

    <Highlight type="note">
    If you are on a free plan there may be rate limiting for your API requests.

>     </Highlight>

Author: This won't work without whitespace on either side. Can we move it under the pre-reqs list, and specify that we're talking about the openAI account?

Reviewer: <img width="774" alt="Screenshot 2023-06-29 at 4 49 25 PM" src="https://github.com/timescale/docs/assets/37059749/29ab6fbe-4ae9-447f-ab7f-da6594c689e6">

This is what I see in the preview.

Author: Ha! Well, I'm constantly surprised by this toolchain 😂 

Either way, maybe move it to be the last dot point, so we don't have that dangling entry?

Reviewer: Done!!!

*   Clone the [Timescale pgvector repository][timescale-pgvector] repository.

<Procedure>

### Using the `pgvector` extension to create a chatbot

> In this example, you create embeddings, insert the embeddings in Timescale and

Author: ```suggestion
In this example, you create embeddings, insert the embeddings into Timescale and
```

> query the embeddings in Timescale using `pgvector`. The content for the

Author: ```suggestion
query the embeddings using `pgvector`. The content for the
```

embeddings is from the Timescale blog, specifically from the
[Developer Q&A][developer-qa] section, which features posts by Timescale users talking

> about their real-world use cases.

Author: This section should be under the L2 heading, not the L3 heading.

Reviewer: Done!!!

1.  Create and activate a Python virtual environment:

    ```bash
    virtualenv pgvectorenv
    source pgvectorenv/bin/activate
    ```

1.  Set the environment variables for `OPENAI_API_KEY` and
    `TIMESCALE_CONNECTION_STRING`. In this example, to set the environment
    variables in macOS, open the `zshrc` profile. Replace
    `<OPENAI_API>`, and `<SERVICE_URL>` with your OpenAI API key and the service
    URL of your Timescale service:

    ```bash
    nano ~/.zshrc
    export OPENAI_API_KEY='<OPENAI_API>'
    export TIMESCALE_CONNECTION_STRING='<SERVICE_URL>'

    Update the shell with the new variables using `source ~/.zshrc`

1.  Confirm that you have set the environment variables using:

    ```bash
    echo $OPENAI_API_KEY
    echo $TIMESCALE_CONNECTION_STRING
    ```

1.  Install the required modules and packages using the `requirements.txt`. This
    file is located in the `vector-cookbook\openai_pgvector_helloworld`
    directory:

    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

1.  To create embeddings for your data using the OpenAI API, open an editor of
    your choice and create the `create_embeddings.py` file.

>     ```python

Author: Might need to add a direction to vale to not check this code snippet.
